and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business
growth show i'm your host sam dunning
co-owner
over at webchoiceuk.com and today i'm
joined by
russ mcumber returning back to the show
returning guest
russ is a strategy strategy director and
the gm
over impressive digital he's also
recognized
as a global retail e-commerce leader by
similar web
russ welcome back sir how's it going man
hey good sam thanks
thanks so much for having me back i'm
i'm hoping we're going to call this show
them a comeback
what do you reckon well that's it why
not why not i know um when we had you
that this was many
many many months ago um probably one of
the earlier episodes actually it was
actually one of the most viewed
and downloaded episodes so far so you're
up there on a leaderboard sir so
let's not let the team down and today
we're going to be talking all about
the ultimate free and ultimate page
strategies to convert
more customers through an e-commerce
website yep so we're diving deep
into all things lead gen
or rather sales based when it comes to
basically convincing people
why they should purchase something on
your site so i think a good place to
start russ
is cro is probably a term that people
have heard thrown around
quite a bit in the digital space so
perhaps we could start with what
conversion rate optimization what cro
really means
yep cool so i guess we probably need to
start at the starting point is like what
what is a conversion
like if we want to be completely clear
on that because where cro is the rate
is the process of optimizing that but
what is a conversion so if we're talking
about
e-commerce businesses so with the
impressive we deal with you know
a lot of probably 80 of our clients are
in that ecommerce space
so for an ecommerce business a
conversion is literally a sale
so you know with with lead gen sites and
different and other sorts of business
sites you might have a demo
contact form form fuel it could be an
email
subscription that kind of thing but the
beauty of e-commerce what i kind of love
about it is it's
a conversion literally means twitching
it's uh it's dollars and you can't show
the bank
yeah yeah so um understanding that then
if we get to okay
what is what does it mean to to optimize
your conversion rate
so it's three parts so conversion is a
sale conversion rate
is the the rate of people the percentage
of people
who go to your site and turn into a sale
right so we'll talk about some of the
numbers you know the averages benchmarks
you need to be looking at
for your e-commerce business then
optimization so it's basically the
process
of optimizing for conversions optimizing
for sales on your site
so a lot of people think of cro
as a it's got a like a bit of a rep as
being like really
sciencey and scientific and it is
because it's lots of tests it's lots of
data
yeah but it's not all software tools and
whiz-bang
tricks and dark art like it there's a
fair bit more
kind of really obvious stuff that i
don't think people think of when i think
of cro which i'm keen to sort of walk
through today as well
yeah man sounds good so ultimately we're
talking about ecommerce we're talking
about an online store
we're talking about a conversion being
someone visiting the site
purchasing an item job done so
and that makes sense so perhaps before
we
talk about kind of ways we can optimize
our site
to ultimately drive more customers
perhaps we should talk about why a
business should
consider doing this first of all what
are the what are the advantages of it
what are the disadvantages
if any and then yeah perhaps getting get
get a bit actionable with it talk about
some statistics and talk about some kind
of free and paid strategies
for sure for sure i guess the most
important thing is you know traffic
you know traffic can be expensive
whether you're investing in seo whether
you're
paying for paid traffic via you know
facebook google display
programmatic if you're doing retargeting
if you're running email campaigns you
know all of those things come
with a cost whether that be the cost per
click whether that be your time
the effort whether that be you know the
months and months of work that you're
doing to
build authority into your site to pull
people through your site
but uh cro is about you know getting
more bang for your buck
it's about being able to turn more of
those customers into into dollars
so i guess you know the why is crs are
important it's because
traffic is expensive whether it's
expensive for your time for your efforts
for your dollars your dollars and cents
so
if you're going to be spending all of
those efforts and time and money
on traffic uh cross is a real good
opportunity to you know if you think
about your funnel you know your top of
funnel middle final bottom funnel
and that very bottom of funnel if you
can have
a process in place where you're trying
to squeeze out as many
customers as possible from all of that
traffic that comes through your funnel
then it means that all of your channels
win means you've got more
more money in your pocket yeah and that
makes sense right so
just like you said a lot of e-commerce
businesses unless they're probably brand
new are going to be doing some kind of
efforts to
drive people to their site as if people
don't come to their site they're not
going to have a chance to
see their wares and purchase so whether
they've got i guess an internal
marketing team
they're doing all that whether that's
seo whether that's paid ads whether it's
different forms of marketing social
marketing etc email marketing
or whether they're paying an agency to
do it or um whatever strategies they're
undertaking
if the website can't convert then it's
it's pointless it's a waste of
investment of time or money like you
quite rightly said so other things that
before we jump in and perhaps hire an
expert or perhaps start reading a bunch
of neil patel's blogs on what is cro and
how to do it or what someone else is
are there things that we need to be kind
of considering measuring
testing before we just jump in and say
right i'm going to re-sweep our website
i'm going to optimize everything
for conversions and this and that are
there things that we need to kind of say
look this is the
foundation this is the review stage and
now this is the
this is the kind of stage two they're
totally up they totally are and this is
where
so i lean heavily on our head of essay
our head of cro
within our agency uh his name salman
nish who i've
done some videos with and you know as
well sam um you know niche hacks he
works in our cro team
and you know a lot of what i used to
consider cro
and what they talk about being you know
best practice cro
a lot of it is stuff that you just
wouldn't think of you don't think of in
terms of like tests and data and that
sort of stuff so
like a really simple one is making sure
you're using really high quality images
and video on your product pages right
so having uh you know a a really
rigorous process to make sure that
the products you've got are really clear
that they're on white backgrounds
um if there's video that it's really
clear what that product is as opposed to
all the other things that are around it
the easier you make it for a customer to
visualize exactly what the product is
on its own and then potentially you know
an experiential type image as well
but that original shot that original
product image needs to be really clear
clean easy ideally on a white background
especially for like a fashion product or
really most products
um that's going to be super important
and that is literally
like 101 cro so before you go and hire
an expert and do all those sorts of
things
have a look at your products have a look
at your product images and product
videos on all of those pages
and have a you know have a think about
how clean and clear
those are and you know whether you feel
it as a customer
you would feel confident knowing exactly
what that is and pressing you know add
to cart
yeah yeah yeah so getting the basics
right and i guess
that's kind of it if someone comes onto
your site and they they click through to
some of the products and all the images
are blurry
they're probably gonna get the feeling
that you're not necessarily a
professional legitimate outfit if you
can't even
chuck together some kind of really fresh
crisp looking images and videos like
quite rightly said this
i guess it's all about that brand
confidence and giving people a sense of
security on your site
are there any other kind of basics that
we should just kind of nail down
on an e-commerce site russ before we get
into kind of looking at analytics and
these kind of more technical things of
cra totally
a couple more things um and some of
these are going to sound really obvious
but this is
literally the sort of stuff that you
need to check off first before you start
getting into analytics and hot jar and
and heat maps and the like like you want
to make sure these fundamentals are done
um another one is free shipping are you
offering free shipping
does it need does it come at a certain
level like if you've got a product
that ideally you want to be you know
charging over 150 dollars and you know
over a hundred dollars
free shipping or you know whatever the
amount that makes sense for your product
and for your margins and for your
customers
so people you know because of amazon and
because of you know
lots of big marketplaces around the
world people expect
that shipping to be to be to be free or
to be kind of loaded into the price
they don't want to have to think about
that extra calculation at the end when
they get to their checkout
you're just giving yourself you know a
big sort of barrier big
speed hump at the very end when they
should be just checking out so
um free shipping is is super important
in today's market it's an absolute must
and it's something that unless you've
got a huge big bulky product
that you know makes that not possible
it's something that you really need to
have
on on your ecommerce site gotcha
gotcha okay yeah that's that's
interesting we're actually
looking at a um without boring people
too much we're looking at one of our
clients does
fi deals in firewood and they're testing
out right now they've got all these
different regions that they
deliver to around the uk but they've
found that there's certain regions that
are getting a bunch of traffic and they
get a bunch of people that get to the
ad to cart process but then they're
dropping off so they're banning their
car
so what we're testing with them right
now is for these specific locations
we're gonna give them the chance to have
free shipping and basically see if that
affects the conversion rate which we
think it probably will
ultimately drive more revenue drive more
sales just because
these certain regions are dropping off
because it is a big thing if you um yeah
like you mentioned if you go through an
entire website
and then you think your order order's
gonna be 105 pounds you put in all your
details you put in your address
you put in everything and then you're
just about to put in your payment
details and it says your shipping is
gonna be ten pounds or fifteen pounds or
fifteen dollars
it scares people off right a hundred
percent they've already done the math
like they weren't
and the silly thing is like sometimes it
might be
it might be five dollars ten dollars but
it's just enough for to have them
to go oh maybe i don't need it right now
and then you what then you'll you know
you need some kind of abandoned cart or
remarketing or something to try to
to reel them back in you're probably
going to need to use a discount or
something to get that sale over the line
you know at another time so you know
don't put a big speed hump right before
that they're about to give you their
credit card
yeah yeah that makes sense makes sense
okay
cool and what um i've got one more which
is
yeah around sort of best practice and
then then i've got some tools and stuff
to sort of look at that's right um yeah
and this one again
it sounds obvious but it's it's
one-on-one stuff that's what all
businesses need to do but
you need to be competitively priced so
if you're selling
a particular brand that lots of other
stores offer
you need to have a good understanding of
what those stores are offering it for
if you're selling a particular type of
product and you know
that people are used to buying the
conditions buying at a certain amount
if you price that well it's like
exceeding that amount
you need a really killer value
proposition as to justify why
it is so much more um if it's you know
similar to what other people are buying
then you really need to be looking at um
uh you know what what the competition's
pricing these at does that fit with your
margins making sure that you've got the
right messaging and right images to the
audience
at that price so really obvious stuff
but um
you know i've got some experience in in
launching sites like this where
you probably didn't you know look too
closely at
um at price point and what people would
be prepared to pay especially when
you're selling stuff internationally
and you look at okay well i didn't
realize in this country that was going
to come in at this much or
holy crap that that t-shirt that i want
to sell is uh
is get a cost of 80 in that country
they're probably not going to buy it
so these are the sorts of things you
want to kind of research ahead of time
i was going to say i guess it comes down
to competitor research and
all that good stuff really as there's no
point like you said chucking on whether
you're doing clothes
t-shirt for a hundred dollars and all
your competitors are 50.
i mean you're brand new in the market
especially so first of all people don't
know the company don't know the brand
don't trust you
and if you're twice as much as everyone
else why why should they purchase from
you
um got it okay so talking about having
great
high quality images videos crisp white
backgrounds we're talking about offering
free
shipping where it makes sense to not
people put people off at the last hurdle
and having kind of sensible pricing and
that makes sense on the market
russ i feel like this is a question i
probably should have asked right at the
start
but what is a good percentage or a good
conversion rate percentage
for an e-commerce site yeah that's good
because all of these things we're doing
an impact on on what that number is so
this is a tough one where you kind of go
it depends and that's not the best
the best answer but if you're talking
about transactional products
which sit under 300 and which a person
is likely to buy online and not have any
concerns about
um you know whether it's not going to
fit in their house or anything like that
so
300 transactional products whether that
be fashion hardware
tech you you're kind of aiming for two
percent
at a minimum okay as you're going over
three hundred dollars and you start to
move into those kind of luxury items
that's when the percentage will come
down
so i've worked with um you know some
globally known uh jewelry brands for
example where
for those brands um you know where an
average transaction could be you know
two or three grand
yep their conversions you know if they
were sitting at sort of point five
percent that was a really good thing and
you know sort of working on ways to get
them to 0.5 um
another luxury brand we work with here
in australia which is sort of through
australia and southeast asia through
apac
um their average transaction i think is
around sort of five to six hundred
dollars
um the conversion rate i believe sits
between 0.8 and 0.1 and that's a really
good number for that particular brand
most products though and most people
listening to this have probably got a
product that sits under that 300
anywhere from sort of
you know 100 to 300 if you're at sort of
two percent
that's kind of where you need to be
aiming for anything sort of between one
and two percent for those products
is um is in in the ballpark of okay but
obviously if you're one percent one and
a half percent
and you've got a hundred thousand people
coming to your site every month that
extra percent or half a percent is gonna
have a pretty big impact
on your bottom line yeah yeah exactly so
so the margins the percentages
just making which we'll get into small
small tweaks here and there can
you have a huge impact on your bottom
line
so i have to ask it why why is it such a
small percentage of people that convert
i mean
most of us like we said earlier spending
so much time or money or our team are
investing time into driving all this
traffic
all these customers all these prospects
rather to our site
yeah what does so few want to do
business with us what does so few buy
it's such an interesting question
because especially and i talk to
business owners all the time who are
like i've got an amazing product i know
no one else's ever
has got anything like this i know it's
you know i've got great reviews i've got
all of these things
and what you're telling me russ is that
if we do a good job two
out of every hundred people are going to
buy it like how can that be so but it
just
you just need to realize that people are
busy
people are you know they're they're
doing lots on their phone they're
scrolling through their different feeds
they're jumping from site to site the
site they're shopping around
they're comparing prices so they're
unlikely very unlikely to buy it on the
very first time they go to your site
that's that's probably really key you
know they're going to go to your site
they might end up becoming a really
loyal customer
but the likelihood of them purchasing it
that first time clearly not very high
and two percent of
customers overall going to buy so it's
about making sure that you understand
that and you factor in all of your
we're kind of obviously our owner but
you've got to factor in all of your
traffic sources and your costs and your
influencers and all that sort of stuff
to understand that a good site will
convert at two percent
so do my margin stack up for that do my
paid media
costs stack up to to make that a viable
business
gotcha gotcha i guess it's a bit like a
retail store right so if you're if
you're a classic
classic shop let's say maybe you are
selling jewelry high ticket stuff
like this kind of 2k plus value
then the chances are a lot of people
won't buy on their first purchase right
especially if you you say you went in
first with your partner you might just
be shopping around
and you may come in for a second look to
try it on and it might not be until the
third or fourth time you actually decide
to make that purchase because you've
kind of tried it on you've had a good
look you've compared the market
you've checked out some competition and
then you you're comfortable with it and
you're ready to buy so i guess it's a
similar kind of
scent it's similar and then if you think
about the fact that if you walk into a
like
foot traffic through a store that you
know the old school retailers will have
their own conversion numbers they know
for x amount of
foot traffic through the store they'll
turn x amount into customers but that's
for someone who's made the commitment
to get out of their home to put on
clothes to walk into a shop
for of a product that they are clearly
interested in they might even get spoken
to by a person
like you know in fact if they convert a
10 15 percent with all of that
commitment
what we're talking about is someone
sitting at home on the couch
watching um you know watching game of
thrones
scrolling through there scrolling
through their phone bouncing in and out
of shops
like grabbing them and having them
actually punch their credit card details
into uh into phones to purchase a
product that's a
it's a much harder sell so um
you know you you need them to uh
be convinced fighting for that attention
right yeah
yeah so okay so with this with these
basics all
in mind what is the starting point in
terms of what we should be
measuring russ so how can we determine
our own
um conversion rate percentage and what
are some perhaps
analytics or some basic tools that we
need to look at
before we start kind of making around
messing around with our site and making
a bunch of changes
for sure for sure so google analytics is
is kind of like
the simplest starting point and that's
what you really need to have on your
code on your site you need that
google analytics code on your site from
the start so whether it's a shopify
wordpress webflow magento you know
nato whatever the the ecommerce platform
is um
google analytics is um you know kind of
the industry standard for for most
businesses to have installed on your
site once you've got that on your site
then you need to make sure that you've
got conversions uh actually tracking
so you need to know that if someone does
fill in
their credit card details check out and
go through to a conversion
that google analytics is tracking
e-commerce conversions so that's a
testing process at the start great
that's when you get your benchmark
that's when we go okay cool
now that we've set that up we've run it
for a month and we can see our site's
converting out
1.5 okay there's a little bit of a
little bit of work to do there
got it okay so setting up analytics
getting those basics in place
setting up um kind of the traffic and
then making sure you can actually
measure what's um what's going on in
terms of what how
how many people are coming through how
many people are making that all
important purchase
um and that side of things do we need to
um kind of attribute certain channels as
well
do we need to consider kind of the
channels that were coming in yeah
we can certainly look at it yeah we can
certainly look at that we can start you
know separating out to see whether okay
well
are certain channels converting better
than that better than other channels
but i think even before we get to that
we can start looking at the behavior of
people on your site
so hotjar is probably the you know the
the heat map program that most people
know of
that i would recommend you know if
you've got as a starting point you know
something like google analytics with
hotjar installed on your site so hotjar
has like it's i think there's a free
version and then there's you know quite
a cheap version
i think it only starts it um i think
it's only like 10 or 15 bucks a month
that's not a lot
um to actually start tracking users on
your site seeing
you know what they're doing like are
they scrolling over your call to action
are they moving past to another point
what is stopping them from actually
converting
um and then you've got you know a b
testing platforms there's lots of them
out there
um they can be quite expensive but i
think as a starting point google
optimize which is free
um you will need dev skills for that so
you might need to you know look at
either
your own dev skills or um you know
potentially finding a dev within your
team or finding a freelance dev
um but google analytics hotjar and
google optimize it's kind of like the
most cost effective way to start
um putting together all the all the data
you need to start running tests
to start you know running some
experiments and figuring out you know
whether it's
changing calls to action colors whether
it's removing friction at different
points
you need all of those tracking things in
place first as
a starting point yep got it so yeah get
get all those tools installed on on your
commerce site as a as a basis
so that way you can actually know what
what's going on with the site
and in terms of traffic in terms of
sources in terms of conversions and
looking at things like you said
with hotjar and the great thing is as
you mentioned most of these have free
versions
so don't have to break the bank to get
them set up and installed
yep so once we've looked at this let's
say we've got a
kind of basic overview of our stats
perhaps we've worked out how many
perhaps we've looked at our first
month's statistics and perhaps we know
that we're getting maybe a thousand
visitors
and then maybe a hundred of those uh
or maybe a bit lesser converting into to
sales into paid customers
um is there certain bits and pieces we
need to dive into whether it's google
analytics whether it's hotjar to kind of
determine
what areas of our site are perhaps
working well what aren't working quite
as well
and then where we may need to consider
kind of tinkering or changing bits and
pieces
for sure for sure first thing you want
to do is look at your checkout process
now
it sounds you know pretty obvious but
like once they've
gone through all the way through that
buyer journey on your site and they're
at that checkout
you know what does that check out
process look like on your site
is it too long is it complicated is it
unconventional people get
cute at the wrong places you know what i
mean like they'll
they'll have that um that checkout
process and they'll start asking
questions like you know
who's your favorite ninja turtle and all
these sorts of things when really
like at that point it's like someone
who's at the cash register and they've
got their credit card like they're there
ready to pay you really kind of need to
make that process at the end as seamless
as possible
if you want to ask some of that cute
stuff afterwards there's some cool stuff
you can do with surveys and the like to
build
you know build a bit more rapport with
your customers but um you know a crucial
step here if you want to start running
you know a b
tests and looking at what's working and
what's not is is having a look at
the very end of your checkout process
how and using like just
using a discerning eye of your own you
don't necessarily need
to be studying hours and hours of heat
map um
data to know that this this uh this call
to action here
for for by now is of a shade of gray
that i can't really see on this white
screen
like there's going to be potentially
some obvious stuff you want to open up
your product pages
and have a look through another one
which sort of happens quite a bit is
people try to have this is something
that happens more on legion sites than
than e-commerce sites but they try to
have as many
calls to actions as possible because
they want conversions how do you get a
conversion
someone has to click on a call to action
great well i'll have one here i'll have
one here
i'll have one here and as i scroll down
the page it kind of smashed it
just everything yeah yeah you're better
off having
you know having them sort of banked in
one place so it might be like buy now
and there might be something else there
which is like um uh
it might be you know a sizing you know
check your sizing
or it might be something else but if
you've got all those sort of banked in
one place
and people know that's an area that's
not confusing where they can
they can convert where they can get
information um
those types of things on your checkout
page are really huge
but um another really obvious one and
one that you know lots of people
kind of don't do is is make sure that it
looks really safe
so if you get to that point you know
have you got an ssl certificate so
they've gone to
and i've done this myself i'll get to
that checkout point and then i'll go oh
wait a second i even checked if
is that little lock up there on my
screen yep okay cool it's ssl
it's safe so how are you making your
customers feel
like this is a safe place to add my
credit card details
a safe place that i feel like i can
trust this business so
um you know showing a range of different
payment options whether it's apple pay
google pay paypal et cetera
after pay all there okay cool well
clearly you know there's some
some reputable this is a reputable
business um
there might be some kind of trust um
trust patch you can have there whether
it's a mcafee or some other sort of
antivirus
something to make people feel a bit more
trust trust pilot
you know these types of badges that are
verified that give people confidence
that okay this isn't just someone some
scammer trying to get my details if
they've got trustpilot there or
something like that
they have to go through a process of
verification to get that there and to
earn that
so what am i doing on that final
checkout page
or what am i doing on that product page
when i'm at the point of you know
conversion of trying to get their credit
card details
to make them feel 100 confident
comfortable secure in handing over their
credit card and making the payment
gotcha yeah so it sounds like almost
starting with the end in mind so looking
at the
checkout process making sure that's as
frictionless as possible
yes so i guess that means kind of not
asking 100 questions like you
you refer to russ ultimately someone's
come that far they're probably ready to
buy so
make it as simple as them to enter as
few details as possible and get the job
done
they're not going through five ten pages
and just make it nice and nice and quick
and easy for someone to check out and
then adding those
aspects of security like you mentioned
that that makes sense really so i
suppose if you went
if you went to a store and they were
they perhaps had their till register on
a cardboard box and they said that you
brought your credit cards by an item
they said sorry guys cash only
and yeah you just got the feeling that
this was not necessarily a legitimate
outfit
and if you wanted to take something back
they might not be there tomorrow
um so yeah i get where you're going okay
um are there any perhaps to
to share a couple things we talked about
kind of checkout process and things like
that are there any best practices
for product pages themself that you've
had experience with so if we land on a
product page
are there any um kind of things we need
to consider
i think just what we spoke about earlier
in terms of making sure that the image
and the video was really really clear
making sure um another thing we didn't
sort of speak about was just really rich
descriptions
so in that product description that's
there making sure you're taking the time
to you know i i would be
not uh sorry let me start from the start
if you've got an ecommerce store quite
often
if you're you know buying the product
from somewhere else with that product
that comes in you'll get some generic
copy
you know white t-shirt blah if you
really want to give
your um you know your customers the
the sense of because you remember what
you're competing with is them buying it
in person speaking to a person trying it
on
having that full rich feel of what it
feels like so whether it's a ring
whether it's a t-shirt a jacket a hat
what can you do within your copy to add
that
rich description because you are
competing against
a physical store so what can you do to
make this experience for them
on top of the nice image and on top of
the nice video yeah make that product
description really clear
so i think um you know outside of
most of the you know your shopify's your
magentos
most of those have got a pretty good
template in place which is built
around conversion and you just kind of
need to fill in the blanks
so you don't need to worry too much
especially if it's like a shopify where
most of the buttons are just there and
you just add them in
it's when you've got your wordpress and
your woocommerce is where people try to
get a bit more creative and adding stuff
right i would be looking at like of your
store of your vertical or the type of
product that you're selling
who else out there do i know that sells
that is doing really really well
so um you know whether that's a a
marketplace whether that's a similar
um jewelry store whatever it is find a
couple of those competitors and look at
the consistencies
across the way that those product pages
are set up don't reinvent the wheel
it's literally there they might even
potentially have you know
if you see that their page looks great
and your page just looks a little bit
off
you can even jump into the code and have
a look at okay well what size are they
doing
my h1s versus my normal text here i see
what they've done there it goes 15 and
then eight
and mine's at 55 and then 20. that's why
mine looks whack
you know what i mean like you don't need
to reinvent the wheel for this sort of
stuff you've got competitors out there
doing
um doing well so start looking at those
at those sort of best practice and then
replicating those into your site
gotcha good just for doing that
competitor research that makes sense
so we've talked about quite a few kind
of paid strategy
i'm sorry free strategies that you can
utilize yourself
um are there any more that we need to
chat about or should we perhaps talk
about a few kind of paid
kind of options when it comes to
conversion rates and fury
site yeah a couple a couple of quick
ones um
what's really annoying is when you're on
it i think this sort of comes back to if
you're building this ecommerce site just
think about yourself as a customer
what would be easy and not annoying
because you know what's really annoying
when you jump on a site
you love a product you get right to the
end and you're about to buy it
and then they won't let you check out as
a guest they are just
dead set on making you fill in a brand
new application form to join this club
that you've got no interest in you just
want that cap
so let them check out as a guest i think
it's really really key
make sure that's something which is just
by default
as an option for them um and one other
last thing just around that sort of
checkout is
make sure they can always see their
shopping cart contents
so make sure that for shopify and the
like most of this is pretty
built in you don't have to worry about
it this kind of speaks more to people
you know building woocommerce sites and
and getting a bit more sort of custom
just make sure if they're they're buying
something that that
you know that shopping cart is there and
they can see it's going one
two three and the dollars are adding up
as well
yeah it just it adds a lot more trust
that okay this site's working
i can see what i'm buying i can see
what's in my shopping trolley you know i
feel much more confident
then i'm going to go and then and then
purchase that so there again just some
sort of you know free one-on-one tips
for your site to make sure that you're
giving yourself
as less little friction friction as
possible nice
i mean a lot of this sounds like you say
russ reducing friction
making people feel like they're on a
secure site
and and then things just like giving
customers
their chosen way to do business with you
which
makes sense right i mean not everyone's
gonna want to pay via paypal or
perhaps with their credit card or
different options giving them different
options there
um like you quite rightly said giving
them the option to check out as a guest
rather than having to fill out a lengthy
kind of detailed form because people are
busy
um other stuff to do so yeah that that
that's all good tips man
so are there any we talked all about the
free options are there any other paid
strategies that we should consider we
should think about it
yeah for sure one of them i think um you
can you can do everything right
and they might get to the end and
they're just busy you know they're on
their mobile phone or they've got to
pick up the kids
they've got something else to do so
they'll leave and they'll leave with
their
cart filled but abandoned so um
setting up an abandoned cart workflow um
so using software
to do that is your best bet we're big on
clavio
as far as e-commerce business businesses
go using clavio it
integrates beautifully with shopify um
it's really powerful there's lots of
really cool stuff you can do with the
workflows and the automations
um but i think clavio as an ecommerce
business is a no-brainer
um it's again it's not super expensive
for
sort of starts at 30 or 40 a month and
then scales up as you as your business
database gets bigger but um there's lots
of other ones out there um
you know dot digital or masses um and
then obviously you've got your sort of
enterprise platforms
but um i think clavio is a great fit for
anyone from sort of small to meeting
we've got some pretty big businesses
who use we've got some enterprise size
businesses who use clavio
and it's it's pretty powerful what it
can do but um
abandon cart software um is
is is key you really need to be you've
got their email you've got those details
they didn't quite buy
you need to be serving them again
afterwards
i guess it's a classic case if you don't
know what you don't know so
yeah if you're not measuring that kind
of thing how the heck are you ever going
to know how many people got to that
you pushed them you did so well you got
the traffic to your site your site
convinced them
where they got to that final step they
added it to the car and then something
distracted them they're gone
um so yeah that's that abandoned cart
software if you've got a way to connect
with them via email and
yeah do do you typically tend to offer
people some kind of discount russell
what do you recommend like because i
know i've seen the classic email when
i've maybe
been on gym shark or one of those kind
of websites and then maybe i've left it
24 hours or amazon even
and then they remind you that
something's in your car some of them i
think offer you incentive others just
say
look did you forget about this item is
there a best practice sure
yeah really it's another one of those it
depends
like if you have margin to work with and
you know you really can just sort of
acquire the customer as quickly as
possible then finally with the
lead with a discount i'd recommend not
leading with a discount for the first
one just a reminder hey
this was here because it's more about
for me i think it's just about reminding
them
that they had this product that they
really liked making it really really
simple with a nice quick call to action
that they can check out as a guest and
they can actually purchase that
so um i think best practice for mine
personally would be to not discount
straight up front
and also just know that some people i've
got friends who literally know
that maybe this is just because my
friends are like tight asses they'll
know like
that when i need a particular supplement
that they give me a discount so i'll put
in my my cart
they'll give me a discount at seven days
at 14 days and in 28 days it's the
biggest discount so what i do each time
is i put in a different email address
and i know when i'm a month out from
needing my protein that i'm just going
to jump in
put it on there wait for that 28 days
later and then get there 25 percent off
and get the photo
so if you're a well-known protein store
and you've seen the name
good stuff all right well that's a top
tip russ and any other paid strategies
that are kind of no-brainers before we
wrap things up
um not so much no-brainers i think
there's so much you can do
um you know i i think with some of those
too like hotjar
yes there's a free option the paid
option's obviously better so you know as
you start to use these tools i think
what you'll find is you're gonna
you're going to max out of what the free
stuff does and you're kind of naturally
going to move towards those paid ones
um we talked about google optimize as a
good free option
um the disadvantage is you need to be
able to code
so if you can't code then it's not like
a drag and drop
whereas something like a vwo um is
pretty cost effective
i mean when i say cost effectiveness
it's a few hundred dollars maybe more a
month
um and then you've got um you know
optimizely and there's some other kind
of more enterprise
i think a b taste is another one those
ones
they're real enterprise size cro
platforms
they're amazing but with those ones you
don't necessarily need to be a developer
you can you can drag and drop you can
build um
you know you can build a sort of staging
page which it looks exactly like your
website to do your testing on
you're dragging and dropping it's nice
and simple but the cost is in the
software costs there so
um google optimize is a nice
freeway and vw is probably that next
step up which
costs a little bit but you don't need to
be a developer to use
nice nice any any final points to
to consider when before we jump in
everyone's gonna
it's probably stolen a fair few of your
free strategies and your page strategies
i guess a lot of people tuning in are
looking forward to jumping into some of
these tools
and tips um any any other things we
should keep top of mind before we jump
in and start hacking around with our
website
and um hoping for for some more juicy
conversions and and deals off the back
of it
yeah totally two things firstly we spoke
about it already but make sure that
you've got a good understanding of what
your current conversion is
and what the industry benchmark is we
know that two percent is a rough
benchmark if you can't find
an exact like for like product with
similar customers that you want to pin
up against
if it's under 300 and it's transactional
just use that two percent as a guide
and try to make your way there that's
number one know those benchmarks
number two if you're doing it yourself
you're not you need to be um sparing in
the changes that you make
on a particular page so what i'm saying
is if you make seven changes to a page
and the conversion goes up you don't
know which one of those seven
it was so as you're working on a page
have a look for you know identify where
you think you can make a change
make that one change and then see how it
goes sort of time
you know one month and next month with
these tools you can do lots of
multivariate testing where you can have
different pages live and you can run
lots of tests at once but
that's probably a little bit further
advanced if you're going to start doing
this yourself
one change at a time so you can measure
the impact of that change and give it
if you've got a lot of traffic through
your site you may be able to run it for
a week and see some results but most
people probably need to run it for a
month
you know at least to have enough data to
make some insights from
makes sense makes pence awesome man so
yeah like you said if you're if you're
doing a bunch of changes on
product pages or your home page how are
you going to know if you start with
x conversion percentage if you start
changing everything throw in the kitchen
sink
how are you going to know what's worked
because you've changed so many things
you don't know what the tipping point
was
so doing that one tweak that makes
perfect sense dude
russ thanks very much coming on man
always a pleasure
with that how can people learn more
about yourself how can people connect
with you or get in touch to do business
with me sir
for sure so uh impressivedigital.com is
the site we're based out of austin texas
um just you know have a look at the site
or just hit me up on linkedin if you've
got questions about cro about your
ecommerce business
about you know traffic anything around
sort of growing businesses i've been
doing this for a long
time so um just hit me up on linkedin i
will jump on impressivedigital.com and
and you know i'm happy to happy to help
and see if our team can help and
answer any questions whether we work
either on a professional basis or
whether we
you know whether i just help point you
in the right direction i'm always kind
of keen to
help small businesses i grew up in small
businesses myself so uh smaller medium
businesses
uh you know really came to help nice one
dude thanks once again for coming on man
cool thanks sam cheers always great no
worries and if you enjoyed the show be
sure to hit subscribe
wherever the heck you get your podcast
from the interview business leaders each
and every week
to provide actionable marketing tips to
grow your business and grow your revenue
everything um on russ all of the links
will be over at the show notes and
business growth
marketing and with that we'll catch you
on the next episode